.\" This is part of a set of commands and information released under the OpenCALEA Project.
.\" http://www.opencalea.org/
.\" 
.\" OpenCalea is distributed under the terms of the modified BSD license:
.\" 
.\" /*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2007, Merit Network, Inc.
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" *     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" *     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" *       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" *     * Neither the name of Merit Network, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" *       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY MERIT NETWORK, INC. ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" * WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" * DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL MERIT NETWORK, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" * DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "controllerd" "8" "conceptware-0.0.1" "The OpenCALEA Project" "OpenCALEA"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
controllerd \- OpenCALEA Control Daemon
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
\fBcontrollerd\fR
[\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-file\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR \fIbind\-addr\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIcontroller\-port\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR [\fI...\fR]]
[\fB\-D\fR \fIdebug\-file\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fIlog\-level\fR]
[\fB\-L\fR \fIlogfile\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
This program is the Control Daemon from the OpenCALEA project.  It runs as a daemon, listening for tcp connections from OpenCALEA control agents.  It is used to tie together all the disparate pieces by sending/receiving messages to start and stop things, check status, and also handles the surveillance log.
.LP 
\fBcontrollerd\fR(8) design is still being considered as it's being developed.  It may end up being stateful and able to detect/recover from crashes, or could end up event driven and stateless (manual crash recovery).  Check back soon for more info.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-file\fR
Specifies an alternate \fIconfig\-file\fR.
.br 
Default: \fB/etc/opencalea/controllerd.conf\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR
Specifies the \fIuser\fR to change to if run as root.
.br 
Default: \fBUser\fR from config file or \fBcalea\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR
Specifies the \fIgroup\fR to change to if run as root.
.br 
Default: \fBGroup\fR from config file or \fBcalea\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-b\fR \fIbind\-addr\fR
Specifies the ip address to bind to.
.br 
Default: \fBBind_Addr\fR from config file or 0.0.0.0 (any)

.TP 
\fB\-p\fR \fIcontroller\-port\fR
Specifies the tcp \fIport\fR to use for control connections.
.br 
Default: \fBPort\fR from config file or \fB41802\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-v\fR [\fI...\fR]
Enable debugging (\fB\-d\fR was taken).  Use multiple times to increase verbosity.
.br 
Default: \fBDebug_Level\fR from config file or off.

.TP 
\fB\-D\fR \fIdebug\-file\fR
Specifies where to debug to.
Valid values are \fBstdout\fR, \fBstderr\fR, \fBsyslog\fR or a \fIfilename\fR.
.br 
Default: \fBDebug_Destination\fR from config file or \fBsyslog\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-l\fR \fIlog\-level\fR
Specifies log level.
\fIlog\-level\fR should be a numeric value from \fB1\fR (least) to \fB5\fR (most).
.br 
Default: \fBLog_Level\fR from config file or \fB1\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-L\fR \fIlogfile\fR
Specifies where to log to.
Valid values are \fBstdout\fR, \fBstderr\fR, \fBsyslog\fR or a \fIfilename\fR.
.br 
Default: \fBLog_Destination\fR from config file or \fBsyslog\fR.

.SH "FILES"
.LP 
    \fBNote: config files are not yet used\fR

.TP 
\fI/etc/opencalea/opencalea.conf\fP
OpenCALEA shared settings
.TP 
\fI/etc/opencalea/controllerd.conf\fP
\fIcontrollerd\fR(8) specific configuration
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run \fIcontrollerd\fR(8) with the default settings from the config file:
.LP 
\fBcontrollerd\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Jesse Norell <jesse@kci.net>
.br 
Henry F. Camacho Jr. <hfc@unpluggedcities.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIcontroller\fR(8), \fIdhcp_cmii_controller\fR(8),
\fIopencalea\fR(8), \fIradius_cmii_controller\fR(8),
\fItap_controller\fR(8)
.LP 
\fIcontrollerd.conf\fR(5), \fIopencalea.conf\fR(5)
.LP 
http://www.opencalea.org/
.SH "STANDARDS"
.LP 
OpenCALEA conforms to the following standards, which are intended to provide "safe harbor" as per Section 107 of CALEA, Public Law 103\-414.
.LP 
ATIS\-1000013.2007,
Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance (LAES) for Internet Access and Services.
.LP 
ATIS\-PP\-1000678.2006,
Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance (LAES) for Voice over
Packet Technologies in Wireline Telecommunications Networks, Version 2.
.SH "SECURITY"
.LP 
\fBcontrollerd\fR(8) is currently conceptware.  This section will be updated as the implementation unfolds.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
Please report all bugs to the OpenCALEA mailing list at:
.IP 
<opencalea@merit.edu>
