.\" This is part of a set of commands and information released under the OpenCALEA Project.
.\" http://www.opencalea.org/
.\" 
.\" OpenCalea is distributed under the terms of the modified BSD license:
.\" 
.\" /*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2007, Merit Network, Inc.
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" *     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" *     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" *       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" *     * Neither the name of Merit Network, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" *       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY MERIT NETWORK, INC. ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" * WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" * DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL MERIT NETWORK, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" * DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "df_collector" "8" "svn-20070502" "The OpenCALEA Project" "OpenCALEA"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
df_collector \- OpenCALEA Delivery Function (DF)
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
\fBdf_collector\fR
[\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-file\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR \fIbind\-addr\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIdf\-port\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR \fIdestination\fR]
[\fB\-M\fR \fIcf\-cmc\-port\fR]
[\fB\-N\fR \fIcf\-cmii\-port\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR [\fI...\fR]]
[\fB\-D\fR \fIdebug\-file\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fIlog\-level\fR]
[\fB\-L\fR \fIlogfile\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
This program is the DF (Delivery Function) from the OpenCALEA project.  It accepts data from one or more CmII or CmC agents and sends it to a CF (Collection Function), such as \fBlea_collector\fR(8).
.LP 
\fBdf_collector\fR(8) is also a client to \fBcontrollerd\fR(8), used to create df "routes" among other things.
.LP 
\fBdf_collector\fR(8) may additionally be used to keep the surveillance log.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-file\fR
Specifies an alternate \fIconfig file\fR.

.br 
Default: see FILES below.

.TP 
\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR
Specifies the \fIuser\fR to change to if run as root.

.br 
Default: \fBUser\fR from config file or \fBcalea\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR
Specifies the \fIgroup\fR to change to if run as root.

.br 
Default: \fBGroup\fR from config file or \fBcalea\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-b\fR \fIbind\-addr\fR
Specifies the ip address to bind to.

.br 
Default: \fBBind_Addr\fR from config file or \fB0.0.0.0\fR (any)

.TP 
\fB\-p\fR \fIdf\-port\fR
Specifies the \fIport\fR to listen on for data.

.br 
Default: \fBDF_Port\fR from config file or \fB41805\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-d\fR \fIdestination\fR
Specifies the \fIdestination\fR CF host to send CmII and CmC to.
For testing this host should be running \fIlea_collector\fR(8).

.br 
Default: \fBCF_Destination\fR \fBlocalhost\fR (127.0.0.1).

.TP 
\fB\-M\fR \fIcf\-cmc\-port\fR
Specifies the \fIport\fR on \fIdestination\fR above to send CmC data to.

.br 
Default: \fBCF_CmC_Port\fR from config file or \fB41820\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-N\fR \fIcf\-cmii\-port\fR
Specifies the \fIport\fR on \fIdestination\fR above to send CmII data to.

.br 
Default: \fBCF_CmII_Port\fR from config file or \fB41810\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-o\fR \fIcmii\-output\-format\fR
Specifies the \fICmII output format\fR.  Valid values are \fBber\fR or \fBxml\fR.
.br 
Default: \fBCmII_Output_Format\fR from config file or \fBber\fR.

.SH "FILES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fI/etc/opencalea/opencalea.conf\fP
OpenCALEA shared settings
.TP 
\fI/etc/opencalea/df_collector.conf\fP
\fIdf_collector\fR(8) specific configuration
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run \fIdf_collector\fR(8) with the default settings from the config file:
.LP 
\fBdf_collector\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Norman Brandinger <norm@goes.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIcontrollerd\fR(8), \fIlea_collector\fR(8), \fIopencalea\fR(8),
\fItap\fR(8), \fBvop_cmii\fR(8), \fBdhcp_cmii\fR(8), \fBradius_cmii\fR(8)
.LP 
\fIdf_collector.conf\fR(5), \fIopencalea.conf\fR(5)
.LP 
http://www.opencalea.org/
.SH "STANDARDS"
.LP 
OpenCALEA conforms to the following standards, which are intended to provide "safe harbor" as per Section 107 of CALEA, Public Law 103\-414.
.LP 
ATIS\-1000013.2007,
Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance (LAES) for Internet Access and Services.
.LP 
ATIS\-PP\-1000678.2006,
Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance (LAES) for Voice over
Packet Technologies in Wireline Telecommunications Networks, Version 2.
.LP 
OpenCALEA is following the development of the WISPA standard for data capture and will add support when possible.
.SH "SECURITY"
.LP 
This section will be updated as the implementation unfolds.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
Please report all bugs to the OpenCALEA mailing list at:
.IP 
<opencalea@merit.edu>
